DONE Should say "Palm Pilot" 
Even though that's not the correct name people tend to search for
"Pilot" as a keyword.

WONTDO Disclaim warranty on first run
Really?  Is this in keeping with the standards for Palm UIs?  Is it in
the spirit of the GNU GPL requirements?

DONE Implicitly commit when leaving edit screen?

DONE Only commit if edit fields are dirty

DONE Remember to tag releases in CVS.

Key is not set when setting password; or when creating a new record
while locked.  If we do this we may not need to set a password on
initial launch.

DONE Checksum is not the same as a MAC
So fix documentation

DONE Implement DES3-EDE

DONE Display progress dialog while reencrypting

DONE  Re-encrypt records when changing password

DONE Dialog while busy

DONE Just store the version in *one* place

Perhaps having a little script to go through and make the
substitutions would be OK.  Would plain old sed do?

DONE Put version in PRC filename
keyring-0.6.0.prc and so on.

DONE Scroll to show active record in list

DONE Check for other places in which memory might be used after being freed

DONE Scribble over sensitive data before quitting the app 

DONE Scrollbar in list form

DONE Something less obtrusive to indicate busy encrypting

DONE Only show busy form for large records		
Yeah, but DES3 of even fairly small records takes a fraction of a
second, so it's probably OK to always show it.  This seems OK at
present.

DONE Delete records on request

DONE Store last-change-date and notes in records

DONE When a new record is created it's date should be today

DONE When returning to list view, keep the same record selected

DONE Display date in preferred format

DONE Show "Key 5/32" in edit details

DONE Clean up code to pack records

DONE Store password in appinfo block

DONE Check password against stored value on opening record

DONE If password is still valid, don't recheck it

DONE Can "set password" dialog be smaller?

DONE Store in sorted order

DONE Handle next/previous-field gestures

DONE Show wait dialog while encrypting or decrypting.

DONE Handle scroll buttons
For now, this mean next/previous record.  But in the future it might
be nice to allow the option of it meaning "scroll the notes field". 

DONE Encrypt record data 
See HACKING for a description of the encryption strategy.

DONE Store application version to support back-compatibility
I think all we really need is to read and convert old versions of the
database.  However, I'm not sure if this is necessary until we get to
1.0 -- up until then people might just have to throw away their
databases. 

DONE Page up/down in list 0.7.4 (Craig Wiegert)

* Limit notes field

The MemoPad app limits Memos to 4kb.
