Keyring for PalmOS

Copyright 1999-2002 by Martin Pool
Copyright 2001-2005 by Jochen Hoenicke

  http://gnukeyring.sourceforge.net/

PRERELEASE INFORMATION

This is a prerelease of keyring and it may contain bugs that destroy
the database or even require a hard reset.  So update your backup,
before installing this.  And keep a backup of the Keys-Gtkr.pdb file
in a seperate place in case you want to downgrade back to 1.2.2 later.

If you choose "No" as Cipher you do not get any encryption.  This
option is there only for test purposes, it will be removed in the
final release.

GENERAL INFORMATION

Keyring lets you securely store secret keys and confidential
information on a PalmOS handheld computer.  This information might
include: computer account passwords, credit card numbers, GnuPG or PGP
passphrases, SKey one-time-pads, or phone banking keywords.

Keyring is Free Software, so you can inspect it to satisfy
yourself of its security, modify it to meet your needs, and share it
with your friends.

Records are encrypted using either triple DES or AES algorithms.  Both
are cryptographically well investigated algorithm and no major flaws
are known.  The encryption key is generated from the master password
in a secure way (PBKDF2).  For your convenience, the keyring can stay
unlocked for a time after you enter your master password.  You can
configure this behaviour through the "Preferences" command.  Keyring
attempts to overwrite memory containing sensitive data after use.

When you need to set a password, Keyring can generate a random
password of specified length, optionally including letters, numbers or
symbols.  Alternatively you can set "pronounceable", which will
generate a vaguely pronounceable lower-case password of the
appropriate length.  Note that this produces a less secure password
than the same length password generated from random lower-case
letters; however it does conform to the FIPS 181 Automated Password
Generator Standard (see fips181.txt).

For more details, see

  http://gnukeyring.sourceforge.net/

This distribution includes files from AESLib for AES encryption. 
See COPYING.AESLib for license terms.

$Id$
