                                        View Keyring

This is a viewer application for Keyring files on Mac OS X, written by Chris Ridd <chrisridd@mac.com> and contributed to the Keyring for PalmOS project under the BSD license.

Build requirements
------------------
View Keyring uses the OpenSSL crypto shared library supplied by Apple to do the required hashing and decryption. Unfortunately Apple only started shipping the OpenSSL header files in Mac OS X 10.2 (Jaguar), so this makes building View Keyring a bit more difficult if you're still on 10.1. The OS X boxes in Sourceforge's "Compile Farm" are still running 10.1.

If you don't have the OpenSSL headers, then just grab a tarball of the appropriate OpenSSL version from <http://www.openssl.org/> and extract it. Add the path to the OpenSSL headers to the C compiler settings in the View Keyring project.

That's roughly how to do it anyway, since I haven't had 10.1 for quite a while now my memory's a bit rusty on the details!

Build instructions
------------------
From the Project Builder GUI, just click the hammer icon or type Command-B. Easy :-)

If you're using the command-line then you can do an "install" (to a mounted disk image, perhaps) as well.

% cd "View Keyring"
% pbxbuild install -buildStyle Deployment "DSTROOT=/Volumes/View Keyring"

The linker warns about a multiply defined symbol (_crypt) being present in the OpenSSL crypto library and the standard library. Ignore it, as View Keyring doesn't use that function anyway.

Bugs
----
There probably are bugs in the app :-( In particular I haven't done any testing of the Japanese character conversion stuff using Japanese characters (using 7-bit ASCII it seems to work OK), so please report back if you've got a Japanese Palm!

Please use Sourceforge to log any bug reports/enhancement requests.

Future
------
Obviously it would be nice to use View Keyring to make modifications to the keyring file.

What would be even better IMO would be to have a real conduit that synchronized changes on the Palm to an Apple keychain. Currently it is extremely difficult (impossible?) to build conduits on OS X using gcc, so sadly that dream will have to wait...