Keyring for PalmOS

Copyright 1999-2002 by Martin Pool
Copyright 2001-2003 by Jochen Hoenicke

  http://gnukeyring.sourceforge.net/

PRERELEASE INFORMATION

This is a prerelease of keyring and it may contain bugs that destroy
the database or even require a hard reset.  So update your backup,
before installing this.

On the positive side, this prerelease will live happily with
keyring-1.2.2 without interfering.  It uses a different database and
different creator IDs.  I also hadn't any hard resets or database
corruption with this program.

Upgrading your keyring-1.2.2 database is not yet supported.  And I
can't promise that later versions of keyring will understand the new
database.  So use it just for testing and keep important passwords
with keyring-1.2.2.


GENERAL INFORMATION

Keyring lets you securely store secret keys and confidential
information on a PalmOS handheld computer.  This information might
include: computer account passwords, credit card numbers, GnuPG or PGP
passphrases, SKey one-time-pads, or phone banking keywords.

Keyring is Free Software, so you can inspect it to satisfy
yourself of its security, modify it to meet your needs, and share it
with your friends.

Records are encrypted using the well-trusted DES3 algorithm on a
master password.  For your convenience, the keyring can stay unlocked
for a time after you enter your master password.  You can configure
this behaviour through the "Preferences" command.  Keyring
attempts to overwrite memory containing sensitive data after use.

When you need to set a password, Keyring can generate a random
password of specified length, optionally including letters, numbers or
symbols.  Alternatively you can set "pronounceable", which will generate
a vaguely pronounceable lower-case password of the appropriate length.
Note that this produces a less secure password than the same length password
generated from random lower-case letters; however it does conform to the
FIPS 181 Automated Password Generator Standard (see fips181.txt).

For more details, see

  http://gnukeyring.sourceforge.net/


This distribution includes files from AESLib for AES encryption. 
See COPYING.AESLib for license terms.

$Id$
